Abiquo API Jython client
========================

This project is a Jython client for the Abiquo Cloud Platform API, using
Jython as a wrapper to the [Official Java client](https://github.com/abiquo/jclouds-abiquo).
To understand the code and adapt it to your needs, you may want to take a
look at the official Java client project page:

 * [jclouds-abiquo Source code](https://github.com/abiquo/jclouds-abiquo)
 * [jclouds-abiquo Documentation](https://github.com/abiquo/jclouds-abiquo/wiki)

You can also find some usage examples in the [Project Wiki](https://github.com/nacx/abijy/wiki).


Prerequisites
-------------

To run the examples you will need to install *Maven >= 2.2.1*, *JRE >= 1.6*
and ***Jython >= 2.5.2***.


Configuration
-------------

Since this project is currently in deep development process and we don't have any egg 
package ready, the *$JYHTONPATH* environment variable needs to be set manually:

    export JYTHONPATH=$(YOUR_PROJECT_HOME_DIRECTORY)
    
You can customize the data being generated by editing the **abijy/constants.py** file.


Building
---------

The only required step to build the Jython client is to configure the 
classpath properly with all necessary dependencies. This is only needed the
first time, and can be done by running the following command:

    mvn compile

This will generate a *pth* file containing the classpath needed to run the Jython
client. Once the classpath file has been generated, you can run the Jython code by
invoking the main script as follows:

    jython main.py           # To run all examples
    jython main.py clean     # To cleanup all data generated by the examples


Use it interactively
--------------------

You can also perform actions against the Api in an interactive way. You just need to
open a Jython shell from anywhere and load the context. The following example shows
how to edit a virtual datacenter interactively:

    nacx@laptop:~ $ jython
    Jython 2.5.2 (Release_2_5_2:7206, Mar 2 2011, 23:12:06) 
    [Java HotSpot(TM) Server VM (Sun Microsystems Inc.)] on java1.6.0_18
    Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
    >>> from abijy.session import ContextLoader
    >>> ctx = ContextLoader().load_context()
    >>> cloud = ctx.getCloudService()         
    >>> cloud.listVirtualDatacenters()
    [VirtualDatacenter [id=11, type=XENSERVER, name=Kaahumanu]]
    >>> vdc = cloud.listVirtualDatacenters()[0]
    >>> vdc.setName("Updated VDC")
    >>> vdc.update()
    >>> cloud.listVirtualDatacenters()         
    [VirtualDatacenter [id=11, type=XENSERVER, name=Updated VDC]]
    >>> ctx.close()
    >>> exit()


Note on patches/pull requests
-----------------------------
 
 * Fork the project.
 * Create a topic branch for your feature or bug fix.
 * Develop in the just created feature/bug branch.
 * Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
 * Commit.
 * Send me a pull request.


Issue Tracking
--------------

If you find any issue, please submit it to the [Bug tracking system](https://github.com/nacx/abijy/issues) and we
will do our best to fix it.

License
-------

This sowftare is licensed under the MIT license. See LICENSE file for details.

